---
layout: default
title: Resume
---

_Updated {{ site.time | date: "%B %d, %Y"}}_

h2. Profile

* I’m 31-years-old multidisciplinary technology specialist with 9 years experience in software engineering, concept & UI design, and product management and development.
* I’ve delivered usable yet highly complex systems for consumer mobile and web. I have experience in designing, leading and managing complex software projects. Also, I have wide understanding of creating services for social media and creation and consumption of user-generated content.
* I’m founding member of the Comeks Oy (2005-2010), CTO, and responsible for technology from strategy to execution. I’m also the main architect and developer of Comeks web and iPhone applications.

h2. Work experience

h3. Full-stack programmer / Netcycler Oy 2010-Current
* Developing frontend and backend for one of the most complex applications ever deployed to Google App Engine. It's a second hand swapping service with automatic proposals for matching items, with currently 45K users.
* Using Python (Django) in backend and Google Closure Lib with jQuery, Sass, HTML5 in frontend
* Responsible for deployment & QA tools, setup of continous integration and testing envinronment

h3. Founder / Cto, Comeks Oy — 2005-2010
* Comeks was a startup founded in 2005, funded by Accel Partners, developing tools for creating and sharing fun and visual messages online or in mobile. Reached 250K users before shutdown.
* Comeks was also doing consultation projects in multiple fields varying from concept design to low-level technical implementations.
* Variety of mobile software projects for software service providers and handset manufacturers
* Large Web/CMS projects for Finnish digital agencies and media corporations.

h3. Flash developer / Phenomena Finland Oy — 2005
* Freelancer / Flash web sites

h3. Director & C++ developer / Cartes — 2002-2004
* Large freelance project for this art and research organization
* Performance creator tool for artists. With the tool it’s possible to create media performances and control media elements (video, sound, bitmaps) by using different kinds of movement and sound sensors.

h3. Java developer / Tampere University Of Technology / Digital Media Institute / hypermedia Laboratory — 2001
* Web-based learning environments
* Design and technical implementation of web-based learning tools. Design and creation of electronic study material.

h2. Education

h3. Helsinki University Of Technology — M.sc., Feb 2007
* Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering. Digital Content Production
* International Design Business Management (IDBM) 2003-2004. Joint program between HUT, Helsinki School of Economics and University of Art and Design Helsinki.

h3. Instituto Tecnológico Y De Estudios Superiores De Monterrey - 2002-2003
* Studies in Spanish, Art history, Politics and Graphic design

h3. Tampere University Of Technology 1999-2001
* Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering. Studies in Multimedia

h2. Skills

h3. Technical Skills:

* I have excellent knowledge on how to create successful web and mobile services. I’m familiar with most modern software technologies, having several years of hands-on expertise with the listed technologies and frameworks

h4. Frontend:

* W3C compliant CSS and xhtml, CSS3, HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, Flash/Flex development
* Usage of modern frameworks & tools: Backbone.js, CoffeeScript, Google Closure lib, jQuery, Sass, CSS frameworks
* Frontend performance debugging & optimization
* Social Media Apps: Facebook, Twitter, etc
* SEO, accessibility, microdata

h4. Backend
* Experienced in creating scalable and high speed web services for LAMP, J2EE & Google App Engine
* Java frameworks/technologies: J2EE, Seam Framework, JSF, JSP, Hibernate, EJB, JPA
* Python: Django, Google App Engine
* PHP based CMSes: Drupal, WordPress, Joomla
* Optimization: memcached, reverse proxies (Varnish), MySQL, Apache, Nginx configuration
* Administration skills: Linux, OSX, Windows

h4. Mobile platforms:
* iOS, J2Me, Symbian and Android application development
* Mobile web

h4. Programming languages, technologies and techniques:

* Java, C/C++, Objective C, ActionScript, PHP, JavaScript, Lingo, Python
* IDEs & Tools: VIM, PyCharm, Eclipse, XCode, Visual Studio, TextMate, ZSH
* Version control: Git, Mercurial, SVN
* Software architecture design, UML
* Agile methods: Scrum, Kanban, TDD
* Testing: unit testing, software testing frameworks, Selenium, CI (Hudson/Jenkins)

h4. Other Skills:

* Technology strategy and management
* Product and project management, new product development, innovation & concept design
* Productivity tools, GTD
* Entrepreneurial, Start-up Focus
* UI & UX design: theory & practice
* Media tools: production, visual and photo-editing, sound and music production and video editing, photography

h4. Languages:
* Finnish, English, Spanish and Swedish
